Application languages in database management system: NO SQL

ABSTRACT: Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) have been very successful at managing structured data with well-defined schemas. Most of the object oriented applications that involve persistent data interact with a relational database. And call level interface (CLI) is most common interaction mechanism like ODBC or JDBC. Applications communicate through a CLI by constructing strings that contain SQL statements. These SQL statements are only checked for correctness at runtime, tend to be fragile and are vulnerable to SQL injection attacks. To solve these and other problems, we present the SQL DOM: a set of classes that are strongly-typed to a database schema. Instead of string manipulation, these classes are used to generate SQL statements. No-SQL database systems supporting JSON are often selected to provide persistence to such applications. JSON is a light-weight and flexible semi-structured data format supporting constructs common in most programming languages. We show how these three principles can be applied to industry leading RDBMS platforms, such as the Oracle RDBMS Server, with relatively little effort. Consequently, an RDBMS can unify the management of both relational data and JSON data in one platform and use SQL with an embedded JSON path language as a single declarative language to query both relational data and JSON data. This SQL/JSON approach offers significant benefits to application developers as they can use one product to manage both relational data and semi-structured flexible schema data.

KEYWORDS:SQL, SQL DOM, Impedance Mismatch, SQL Strings, SQL Injection, Dynamic SQL, Schema-less, JSON, No-SQL, XML.
